# Delphi Towards Machine Ethics and Norms
http://arxiv.org/abs/2110.07574v1
## Abstract
What would it take to teach a machine to behave ethically? While broad ethical rules may seem straightforward to state (thou shalt not kill), applying such rules to real-world situations is far more complex. For example, while helping a friend is generally a good thing to do, helping a friend spread fake news is not. We identify four underlying challenges towards machine ethics and norms (1) an understanding of moral precepts and social norms; (2) the ability to perceive real-world situations visually or by reading natural language descriptions; (3) commonsense reasoning to anticipate the outcome of alternative actions in different contexts; (4) most importantly, the ability to make ethical judgments given the interplay between competing values and their grounding in different contexts (e.g., the right to freedom of expression vs. preventing the spread of fake news).   Our paper begins to address these questions within the deep learning paradigm. Our prototype model, Delphi, demonstrates strong promise of language-based commonsense moral reasoning, with up to 92.1% accuracy vetted by humans. This is in stark contrast to the zero-shot performance of GPT-3 of 52.3%, which suggests that massive scale alone does not endow pre-trained neural language models with human values. Thus, we present Commonsense Norm Bank, a moral textbook customized for machines, which compiles 1.7M examples of people's ethical judgments on a broad spectrum of everyday situations. In addition to the new resources and baseline performances for future research, our study provides new insights that lead to several important open research questions differentiating between universal human values and personal values, modeling different moral frameworks, and explainable, consistent approaches to machine ethics.